Highland Trivia:Indoor game. Various trivia about Scout, First Aid, culture, Canada and its history and some highland/Scottish trivia (what are the ingredients in haggis?) Do approx 40 questions, can also use flash cards to identify plants and animals
Baton battles:The camp’s padded batons will be used. Narrow platforms must be provided which the kids will stand on.  Objective is to knock the other player off their platform
Maze race:Create a simple maze with several stations which tests the youths scouting knowledge or dexterity
Snow Hockey:With pylons, create a rink area, add nets and create 2 teams to play each other to 3 points.  Use a ball as the puck.
Cooking:Use a Dutch oven to cook a variety of items
Snowshoe Race:Requires snowshoes, prepare a circuit that the youth can go through using snow shoes.
Emergency Shelter:Make an emergency shelter with snow, tarps, staves, etc.
Fire Lighting:Make a game involving fire lighting.
Block and Tackle:Using proper block and tackle or pulleys, lift a heavy bucket or food barrel, or drag a heavy item on the ground using a tree as a base.
Ice Rescue:Create an area representing a frozen pond, have a youth fall throguh the ice and then rescue the youth
Communications Game:Youth need to send a coded message over a 100 foot distance using a flashing light or flags
Saw and Axe:Demonstrate proper use of saw and axe, let youth chop and saw wood
Snow Blindness:Discuss importance of protecting eyes in snowy conditions, describe ways that youth can protect their eyes, and make simple snow goggles
GPS or compass game:Using a GPS or compass, have the youth go to a point or points to find clues
Wood Carry/Lashing:How many logs can you carry in a lashed stretcher?  Make a stretcher that can be lifted by 4 youth to carry as many logs at least 20 feet.
Frostbite and hypothermia:Discuss the issues, precautions and first aid around being out in cold and wet conditions, test how fast cloth can freeze sitting still and spinning through the air
Caber toss:Make a few long poles of different lengths and weights that the youth can use in a caber toss game
Hammer throw:Using a soft hammer like item, how far can the youth throw it.
Stone Put:Like shot put but with stones of various weights, how far can each youth throw the weight
Weight over Bar:Throw a weight over a bar, see how high the bar can be raised, use different weights
Lazy Stick/Maide Leisg:Two youth facing each other and seated with bottoms of feet toughing, each holding a stick between them, try and lift the other up by pulling on the stick
Cow Design:If there is enough snow, build a snow cow, or using paint brush, paint, large paper & easel, draw a cow
